Add gift cards (#330)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/dashboard/catalog/gift-cards.md

---

> title: Gift Cards

Reviewer: Since it's a page dedicated to adding gift cards it could be mentioned that user can issue new gift cards from the customer details view in the "gift cards" card on the right.

---

:::note
Gift Cards are available in Saleor 3.1 (alpha stage). For production purposes, we recommend using the latest beta version of Saleor 3.0.
:::

This page contains information on how to manage gift cards by selecting a specific currency, sending them to customers, or setting expiring dates.

## Introduction
Gift cards are timeless and universal gifts. They are suitable for customers, employees, CEOs, business partners, or family members. Issuing gift cards can increase your sales and provide a better customer experience.

## How to

> ### How to create a gift card?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to create a single gift card?
```

There's also a "bulk creation" feature that's worth mentioning.

Author: There is an additional section - "how to create multiple gift cards"

Once you have created a product type that can be used as a gift card or voucher, you can issue a gift card. Go to the Gift Card page of the Catalog section. 

![Gift cards](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-main.png)

Then click the Issue Card button on the top right corner of the page. A pop-up page will appear where you can carry out the following actions related to the gift card creation:  

- Choose currency  

- Enter the amount  

> - Send gift cards to customers  

Reviewer: I think the important thing to note somewhere here, as it can be a bit confusing, is that the customer will have the gift card assigned to them when they use it in checkout. The gift card can be passed to other people and not necessarily used by the selected customer only. 

```suggestion
- Send gift cards to customer
```

Author: My bad--used a plural word.

- Set expiry date  

- Write notes

- Assign activation requirement

![Gift cards](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-new.png)

> Once a gift card has been created you can manage its balance on the top of the gift card details page. You can also add a card tag (optional) and set an expiration date.  

Reviewer: Details page can be accessed by clicking on a gift card. User can add multiple tags

> On the right side of the gift card details page, you can find basic information about the gift card such as the creation date.

Reviewer: On the right side, when gift card is used in an order, there will be hyperlinks to the order when it was used, customer who used it - i think it's important to note here.

> ### How to set an automatic expiration for gift cards

Reviewer: I think it refers only to gift cards created after the settings has been updated - it will not change existing gift cards' expiry dates.

Click the three dots button on the top right corner of the page, near the Issue Card button. Click *Settings* and then you can set gift cards to expire after a certain time after their purchase. Remember that in some countries, gift cards expiry is prohibited by law.

![Gift cards](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-expiration.png)

### How to manage metadata in the gift card details page
Once a gift card has been created you can add private and public metadata for each gift card in the gift card details page. Use the button Add Field to add a new metadata field.

![Gift cards](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-metadata.png)

### How to deactive a gift card

> Select a specific previously created gift card from the gift cards list and then click *deactivate*. 

Reviewer: Since we mention the "deactivate" action we can write about the bulk actions on the gift card list page. User can select many gift cards, delete, activate, deactivate them from the list page. Also, all these actions can be performed in the details view.

---
title: Gift Cards
---

:::note
Gift cards are available in Saleor 3.1.
:::

> This page contains information on how to manage gift cards by selecting a specific currency, sending them to customers, or setting expiring dates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page contains information on how to manage gift cards by selecting a specific currency, sending them to customers, or setting expiry dates.
```
not sure tho

## Introduction
Gift cards are timeless and universal gifts. They are suitable for customers, employees, CEOs, business partners, or family members. Issuing gift cards can increase your sales and provide a better customer experience.

## How to
### How to create gift cards?

> Once you have created a product type that can be used as a gift card or voucher, you can issue a gift card. Go to the Gift Card page of the Catalog section. 

Reviewer: I don't think you need a product type of gift card or voucher to create a gift card. There are product types of gift card but it's for selling gift cards to customers in the store. You can create a gift card not as a product and just give it to someone eg. as a compensation.

Reviewer: cc: @bmigirl

Author: Good point. I'll change it.

Reviewer 2: Yes, you need a gift card product type to sell a gift card as a product, but no need of it to just issue it manually from gift cards list etc.

Reviewer 2: Also there is a mention of `Once you have created a product type` - I think this should be a link to an appropriate section of product type docs

On the right side of the gift card details page, you can deactivate a gift card, resend a code, and find basic information about the gift card such as:

- Creation date

- Link to order number to which gift card has been used

- Product bought to receive gift card

- User who issued a gift card

- Customer who used a gift card

![Gift cards-details view](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-details-view.png)

### How to manage metadata in the gift card details page
Once a gift card has been created you can add private and public metadata for each gift card in the gift card details page. Use the button Add Field to add a new metadata field.

![Gift cards](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-metadata.png)

### How to activate, deactive or remove gift cards
Select a single or multiple previously created gift cards from the gift cards list and then click *activate*, *deactivate* or remove by clicking on the trash bin icon.

![Gift cards](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-deactivate.png)

### How to set an automatic expiration for gift cards

> Click the three dots button on the top right corner of the page, near the Issue Card button. Click *Settings* and then you can set gift cards to expire after a certain time after their purchase. Remember that in some countries, gift cards expiry is prohibited by law.

Reviewer 2: Still no mention of the fact that only newly created gift cards will be affected by this change

![Gift cards](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-expiration.png)

### How to export gift card codes
Click the three dots button on the top right corner of the page, near the Issue Card button. Click *Export card codes* to export information for specific, or all, gift cards as a spreadsheet or a CSV file.

:::note

> Only active or non used cards can be exported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only active and unused cards can be exported.
```

---
title: Gift Cards
---

:::note
Gift cards are available in Saleor 3.1.
:::

This page contains information on how to manage gift cards by selecting a specific currency, sending them to customers, or setting expiry dates.

## Introduction
Gift cards are timeless and universal gifts. They are suitable for customers, employees, CEOs, business partners, or family members. Issuing gift cards can increase your sales and provide a better customer experience.

## How to
### How to create gift cards?
Go to the Gift Card page of the Catalog section.

:::note

> If you would like a gift card to act as a payment method, first you need to create a gift card [product type](dashboard/configuration/products.md).

Reviewer 2: @karolkielecki this information is not correct. You can use any viable gift card as payment method. You need a product type in order to sell a gift card product in your store.

:::

![Gift cards](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-main.png)

Then click the Issue Card button on the top right corner of the page. A pop-up page will appear where you can carry out the following actions related to the gift card creation:  

- Choose currency  

- Enter the amount  

- Send gift cards to customer  

- Set expiry date  

- Write notes

- Assign activation requirement

![Gift cards](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-new.png)

You can also create multiple gift cards at the same time by clicking the three dots button on the top right corner of the page, near the Issue Card button. Then click the *Bulk Issue* button.

![Gift cards-bulk issue](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-bulk-issue.png)

Once a gift card has been created you can manage its balance on the top of the gift card details page. You can also add multiple tags (optional) and set an expiration date.  

On the right side of the gift card details page, you can deactivate a gift card, resend a code, and find basic information about the gift card such as:

- Creation date

> - Link to order number to which gift card has been used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Link to order in which gift card has been used
```

Author: Double checked it. They are pretty much interchangeable here. I feel more comfortable with the first version.

Reviewer: We're linking to an Order not an order number.

- Product bought to receive gift card

- User who issued a gift card

- Customer who used a gift card

![Gift cards-details view](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-details-view.png)

### How to manage metadata in the gift card details page
Once a gift card has been created you can add private and public metadata for each gift card in the gift card details page. Use the button Add Field to add a new metadata field.

![Gift cards](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-metadata.png)

### How to activate, deactive or remove gift cards
Select a single or multiple previously created gift cards from the gift cards list and then click *activate*, *deactivate* or remove by clicking on the trash bin icon.

![Gift cards](../screenshots/catalog-giftcards-deactivate.png)

### How to set an automatic expiration for gift cards
Click the three dots button on the top right corner of the page, near the Issue Card button. Click *Settings* and then you can set gift cards to expire after a certain time after their purchase.  Please bear in mind that once you've set an automatic expiration for gift cards, it will affect only the newly created gift cards after applying that setting.

:::note

> Remember that in some countries, gift cards expiry is prohibited by law.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that in some countries gift cards expiry is prohibited by law.
```
